Linux Server Management and Security
by University of Colorado System

WEEK 1
Introduction to Practical Linux System Management
Welcome to the first module! This module will cover key aspects of the course in addition to discussing Linux in the enterprise and distributions.
4 videos, 7 readings, 1 practice quiz
	1.	Video: Introduction
	2.	Reading: About this course
	3.	Reading: Resources for building your own test environment
	4.	Video: About the Instructor
	5.	Video: Linux in the Enterprise
	6.	Video: About Linux and Distributions
	7.	Reading: Best of Linux Distributions - 2017
	8.	Reading: Common Commands and Utilities
	9.	Reading: Linux from Scratch
	10.	Reading: Package Management
	11.	Reading: Lecture Slides
	12.	Discussion Prompt: Linux anyone?
	13.	Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz - Week 1

Show less
Graded: About Linux

WEEK 2
Configuring Linux in the Enterprise
This module covers the installation and configuration of Linux in an enterprise setting.
5 videos, 5 readings, 1 practice quiz
	1.	Video: Enterprise Install of CentOS
	2.	Reading: How to install Linux
	3.	Video: Networking in Linux
	4.	Reading: Networking within Linux
	5.	Video: SUDO
	6.	Video: SSH
	7.	Reading: SSH - HowTo
	8.	Video: CRON
	9.	Reading: Cron - HowTo
	10.	Reading: Lecture Slides
	11.	Discussion Prompt: What commands do you want to know more about?
	12.	Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz - Week 2

Show less
Graded: Configuring Linux

WEEK 3
Users, authentication, and authorization in a Linux environment
This module describes the essentials of managing users in the enterprise.
4 videos, 5 readings, 1 practice quiz
	1.	Video: Adding Users
	2.	Reading: Adding and Modifying Users
	3.	Video: Securing Users
	4.	Reading: Privilege Escalation
	5.	Video: Access Control
	6.	Video: Working with other systems
	7.	Reading: Authentication - PAM
	8.	Reading: Using PAM
	9.	Reading: Lecture Slides
	10.	Discussion Prompt: Permissions
	11.	Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz - Week 3

Show less
Graded: Users, authentication, and authorization

WEEK 4
Securing Linux in the Enterprise
This module covers Linux security. What does a system administrator need to know in order to adequately protect their systems.
4 videos, 4 readings, 1 practice quiz
	1.	Video: SELinux
	2.	Reading: SELinux - Introduction and commands
	3.	Video: Linux Security
	4.	Video: Software firewalls in Linux
	5.	Video: Services within Linux
	6.	Reading: UFW Cheat Sheet and common commands
	7.	Reading: Firewalld - HowTo
	8.	Reading: Lecture Slides
	9.	Discussion Prompt: Securing Linux
	10.	Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz - Week 4

Show less
Graded: Linux Security

WEEK 5
Practical Linux Administration - Project
This is the course project. Linux threats come from a variety of sources. It's up to you to have a stance on how to administer and protect a system.
	1.	
Graded: A new hire - you!



